---
type: game
---

# The Computer Game Installer

## Premise

You got home from work early (another unannounced inspection).  You boot
up the computer.  This week's favorite game, Legion-nary a Jester
(medieval real time strategy combined with party game mechanics) is
ready for you to play.  You click on the all-caps play button and expect
to see the loading screen.  However, the loading of the loading screen
never seems to finish.  Instead a message pops up: "Obligatory upgrade".

... Even better!  You haven't had the chance of upgrading any of your
games since yesterday.  The game is actually also pretty difficult.  You
start upgrading the game.  5.1 gigabytes.  Won't be too long.

All you can do now is wait.  Or, well, you also have a *console*,
which - just as it happens - has a new game available on your monthly
game subscription.  Might be nice...

**It's a game about installing and upgrading games.**


## The player character

The player character loves all things video games, but really only cares
about installing and upgrading them in order to maintain up-to-date
digital libraries.  They also have a day job which never needs to make
sense within the game, but which might serve as a breaker between the
game activities each night.


## Narrative escalation

The point of the game is to go to the extremes of the game installation
goal.

The happiness of the player character can be defined as

  - The character is happy when games are being installed and upgraded.
    - The more games going through this process at any given time, the
      happier they are.
  - The character is unhappy when all games are up-to-date.
    - This can be remedied by either buying and installing new games, or
      by buying more platforms (so the games need to be updated on
      multiple pieces of hardware), or by making the updated games need
      to be updated once more.

So the game is really about uncritically maximizing this brittle
happiness.  To *encourage this* the player needs to be given some
interesting narratives to follow.  Here are some ideas:

  - If you reach a point where you have *all* platforms, you can get the
    option of also taking over your neighbors' platforms.  Initially
    they might be happy that you're taking care of the boring parts of
    owning a computer or a console, but they might get angry if you
    don't let them play their games.  They might regret asking you for
    help...
  - Some games might turn out to be way too stable.  So stable that they
    never need to be upgraded.  But games *do* need upgrades when they
    have *security issues*.  You can choose to spend time finding and
    reporting security issues to accelerate this process.
  - Connections at work: Though your job is never explained in the game,
    it will still be clear that it provides you with certain connections
    that reach high up the pillars of power.  You can choose to use
    these connections to influence game makers, perhaps to make some
    more downloadable content (does not need to be of high quality, but
    large textures are a plus).


## Gameplay

An underlying simulation keeps track of games being downloaded,
happiness, money, and any other numbers that could be relevant.

In addition to this there will be handcrafted narrative chains that will
change some of these numbers.

The game will be mostly text-based, but it should be easy to view the
current stats.  It's real time but can be paused at any time.


## Games in the game

The player character needs to have access to a lot of games that they
can download.  For this purpose we'll generate game titles, game genres,
and game descriptions.  Maybe even game reviews.  None of these are
supposed to mean anything, but it's nice to have a backdrop of something
that seems realistic.  Don't overcomplicate this part, the generator
doesn't have to be overly complicated.  Bad generated names are also
fun.
